To achieve 10-bit accuracy, a fully differential architec-
ture suppresses the substrate and supply noise and has good
common-mode noise rejection. SAR ADCs usually use a
binary-weighted capacitor array rather than a C-2C capacitor
array for better linearity. Fig. 1 shows a conventional 10-bit
fully differential SAR ADC. The fundamental building blocks
are the comparator, sample-and-hold (S/H) circuit, capac-
itor network, and successive approximation registers. In this
charge-redistribution based architecture, the capacitor network
serves as both a S/H circuit and a reference DAC capacitor
array. Therefore, this architecture does not require a monolithic
S/H circuit. Since this ADC is fully differential, the operation
of the two sides is complementary. For simplicity, only the
positive side of the ADC operation is described below. At the
sampling phase, the bottom plates of the capacitors are charged
to
, and the top plates are reset to the common-mode voltage
is switched to
and
cm . Next, the largest capacitor
the other capacitors are switched to ground. The comparator
then performs the first comparison. If
is higher than
,
the most significant bit (MSB)
is 1. Otherwise,
is 0,
and the largest capacitor is reconnected to ground. Then, the
second largest capacitor
is switched to
. The comparator
does the comparison again. The ADC repeats this procedure
until the least significant bit (LSB) is decided. Although the
trial-and-error search procedure is simple and intuitive, it is
not an energy efficient switching scheme, especially when
unsuccessful trials occur.

Fig. 2 shows the proposed SAR ADC, where the proposed
switching procedure can be either upward or downward. For
fast reference settling, i.e., discharging through n-type transis-
tors, downward switching was selected in this ADC. The pro-
posed ADC samples the input signal on the top plates via boot-
strapped switches, which increases the settling speed and input
bandwidth. At the same time, the bottom plates of the capacitors
. Next, after the ADC turns off the bootstrapped
are reset to
switches, the comparator directly performs the first comparison
without switching any capacitor. According to the comparator
output, the largest capacitor
on the higher voltage poten-
tial side is switched to ground and the other one (on the lower
side) remains unchanged. The ADC repeats the procedure until
the LSB is decided. For each bit cycle, there is only one ca-
pacitor switch, which reduces both charge transfer in the ca-
pacitive DAC network and the transitions of the control circuit
and switch buffer, resulting in smaller power dissipation. The
flow chart of the proposed successive-approximation procedure
is shown in Fig. 3.
One of the major differences between the proposed method
and the conventional one is that the common-mode voltage of
to ground
the reference DAC gradually decreases from half
as shown in Fig. 4. The proposed switching sequence does not

